# Interactive, Data-driven Visual Narrative- https://gender-disparity-in-workplace.netlify.app/

## Project Overview and Objective

According to The [Global Gender Gap Report](https://www.weforum.org/reports/global-gender-gap-report-2021), published yearly by the World Economic Forum, there is a 18% difference between the income of men and women as of 2020. As the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to be felt, closing the global gender gap has increased by a generation from 99.5 years to 135.6 years. This project, through interactive visualizations and custom filters, aims to represent the disparities between the men and women across all sectors, be it politics, sports, entrepreneurship etc.

We would like to explore global gender wage disparity holistically, understand the economic indicators such as gender equality index, GDP, inheritance rights, financial independence and gauge if there exists a relationship between them and wage inequality. This will then include an analysis on the aid set aside for bridging this gap. Finally, we will introduce the concept of controlled and uncontrolled wage gap. 
Women’s involvement in the labor market has changed in several notable ways over the past several decades and we aim to provide a detailed overview of how the employment numbers have changed over the last 72 years. We also aim to compare the wages and participation of women across different job levels such as management, business, science and arts, education, legal occupations, healthcare practitioners, production occupations, sports officials etc. 

Today, women have just three-quarters of the legal rights of men; in 1970, it was less than half. The [Women, Business and the Law 2020](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/32639/9781464815324.pdf?sequence=6&isAllowed=y) report presented results on how laws have changed since 1970. We aim to evaluate and find correlation between a country’s performance based on the Women, Business and the Law (WBL) index and women in the labor force,wage gap between men and women, and investments in health and education. By this analysis, we aim to provide more evidence that will inspire policymakers to change their laws so that more women can contribute to economic growth and development.


Please refer to the complete project description and questions addressed [here](https://github.com/Nikita-Pardeshi/Gender-Disparity-in-Workplace/blob/324c23085df6836a2aecfb53de82ef82254782ad/Project%20Description.pdf). 